Rabbitmq (#12)
observIQ/opentelemetry-components: receiver/rabbitmqreceiver/README.md

# RabbitMQ Receiver

This receiver is fetches queue stats from a RabbitMQ instance using `/api/queues`. See [https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html](https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html) for more details.

Supported pipeline types: `metrics`

> :construction: This receiver is in **BETA**. Configuration fields and metric data model are subject to change.

## Prerequisites

Collecting metrics requires the ability to call `/api/queues`.  Please refer to [setup.sh](./testdata/scripts/setup.sh) for an example of how to configure these permissions. 

## Configuration

RabbitMQ receiver supports RabbitMQ version 3.8+

The following settings are required to create a database connection:
- `endpoint`
- `username`
- `password`

The following settings are optional:
- `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): This receiver collects metrics on an interval. This value must be a string readable by Golang's [time.ParseDuration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration). Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h`.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
receivers:
  rabbitmq:
    endpoint: localhost:15672
    username: otel
    password: $RABBITMQ_PASSWORD

>     collection_interval: 10s

Reviewer: This appears cut off. Probably because my suggestion contained triple backticks. Sorry about that. Here's the rest (after closing the backticks from the example config:

```
The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented [here](./config.go) with detailed sample configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml).

## Metrics

Details about the metrics produced by this receiver can be found in [metadata.yaml](./metadata.yaml)
```

> # RabbitMQ Receiver
> 
> The RabbitMQ receiver is designed to retrieve RabbitMQ queue stats from a single RabbitMQ instance and build metrics from that data. Then send them to the next consumer at a configurable interval. Configuration options for connecting to the database are also required.
> 
> > :construction: This receiver is in beta and configuration fields are subject to change.
> 
> ## Details 
> 
> RabbitMQ stats are pulled using `/api/queues` which returns an array of queues with the applicable metrics for each queue (see [https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html](https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html) for details). The RabbitMQ receiver extracts values from the results and converts them to open telemetry metrics. Details about the metrics produce by the RabbitMQ receiver can be found in [metadata.yaml](metadata.yaml).
> 
> ## Prerequisites
> 
> Collecting metrics requires the ability to call `/api/queues`.  Please refer to [setup.sh](./testdata/scripts/setup.sh) for an example of how to configure these permissions. 
> 
> ## Configuration
> 
> RabbitMQ receiver supports RabbitMQ version 3.8 and above.
> 
> The following settings are required to create a database connection:
> 
> - `username`
> - `password`
> - `endpoint`
> 
> The following settings are optional:
> 
> - `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): This receiver runs on an interval.
> Each time it runs, it queries rabbitmq, creates metrics, and sends them to the
> next consumer. The `collection_interval` configuration option tells this
> receiver the duration between runs. This value must be a string readable by
> Golang's `ParseDuration` function (example: `1h30m`). Valid time units are
> `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h`.
> 
> Example:
> 
> ```yaml
> receivers:
>   rabbitmq:
>     collection_interval: 10s
>     username: otel
>     password: otel
>     endpoint: localhost:15672
> ```
> 
> The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented [here](./config.go)
> with detailed sample configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml).
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# RabbitMQ Receiver

This receiver is fetches queue stats from a RabbitMQ instance using `/api/queues`. See [https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html](https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html) for more details.

Supported pipeline types: `metrics`

> :construction: This receiver is in **BETA**. Configuration fields and metric data model are subject to change.

## Prerequisites

Collecting metrics requires the ability to call `/api/queues`.  Please refer to [setup.sh](./testdata/scripts/setup.sh) for an example of how to configure these permissions. 

## Configuration

RabbitMQ receiver supports RabbitMQ version 3.8+.

The following settings are required to create a database connection:
- `endpoint`
- `username`
- `password`

The following settings are optional:
- `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): This receiver collects metrics on an interval. This value must be a string readable by Golang's [time.ParseDuration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration). Valid time units are `ns`, `us` (or `µs`), `ms`, `s`, `m`, `h`.

### Example Configuration

```yaml
receivers:
  rabbitmq:
    endpoint: localhost:15672
    username: otel
    password: $RABBITMQ_PASSWORD
    collection_interval: 10s
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented [here](./config.go) with detailed sample configurations [here](./testdata/config.yaml).

## Metrics

Details about the metrics produced by this receiver can be found in [metadata.yaml](./metadata.yaml)

```

This suggestion should update the readme to the new standard format.

# RabbitMQ Receiver

The RabbitMQ receiver is designed to retrieve RabbitMQ queue stats from a single RabbitMQ instance and build metrics from that data. Then send them to the next consumer at a configurable interval. Configuration options for connecting to the database are also required.

> :construction: This receiver is in beta and configuration fields are subject to change.

## Details

RabbitMQ stats are pulled using `/api/queues` which returns an array of queues with the applicable metrics for each queue (see [https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html](https://www.rabbitmq.com/monitoring.html) for details). The RabbitMQ receiver extracts values from the results and converts them to open telemetry metrics. Details about the metrics produce by the RabbitMQ receiver can be found in [metadata.yaml](metadata.yaml).

## Prerequisites

Collecting metrics requires the ability to call `/api/queues`.  Please refer to [setup.sh](./testdata/scripts/setup.sh) for an example of how to configure these permissions. 

## Configuration

> > :information_source: This receiver is in beta and configuration fields are subject to change.

Author: removed

> > :information_source: This receiver is in beta and configuration fields are subject to change.

Author: removed
